README.md, before:

# Q-Vision 3D

**Q-Vision 3D** is an interactive 3D Reinforcement Learning (RL) environment designed to visualize and teach RL concepts. It features a custom-built 3D world where an intelligent agent learns to navigate a grid, avoid hazards, and reach goals.

![Q-Vision 3D Screenshot](./screenshot.png)

## Features

-   **Interactive 3D World**: Built with React Three Fiber, featuring a high-contrast chessboard grid and professional lighting.
-   **Custom Agent**: A unique "Wooden Robot" agent constructed from geometric primitives.  
-   **Q-Learning Visualization**: Watch the agent learn and explore its environment in real-time.
-   **Modern Aesthetic**: A clean, neutral design with a focus on clarity and professionalism.

## Controls

![Controls Overview](./controls.png)

The dashboard provides real-time control over the Q-Learning algorithm and the simulation:

-   **Learning Rate ($\alpha$)**: Determines to what extent newly acquired information overrides old information. A factor of 0 makes the agent learn nothing (exclusively exploiting prior knowledge), while a factor of 1 makes the agent consider only the most recent information (ignoring prior knowledge).
-   **Discount Factor ($\gamma$)**: Determines the importance of future rewards. A factor of 0 makes the agent "myopic" (or short-sighted) by only considering current rewards, while a factor approaching 1 will make it strive for a long-term high reward.
-   **Exploration ($\epsilon$)**: Controls the trade-off between exploration and exploitation. A higher value means the agent is more likely to choose a random action to explore the environment, while a lower value means it will exploit its current knowledge.
-   **Sim Speed**: Adjusts the speed of the simulation. Drag left for faster execution, right for slower observation.
-   **Reset Agent**: Resets the agent's position and clears its learned Q-table, starting the learning process from scratch.

## Getting Started

1.  Install dependencies:
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

2.  Run the development server:
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

3.  Open your browser to the local server (usually `http://localhost:5173`).

## Technologies

-   React
-   TypeScript
-   Three.js (@react-three/fiber, @react-three/drei)
-   Vite
-   Tailwind CSS

Commit message:

Enhance UI/UX with responsive design, MuJoCo aesthetics, and documentation updates
- **Documentation**: Update readme with more context.
- **3D World**:
    - Implemented responsive camera for better mobile experience.
    - Updated grid visual style to MuJoCo-inspired checkerboard.
    - Added Q-value visualization on tiles.
    - Added 'GOAL' text label.
- **Dashboard**:
    - Redesigned control panel with modern UI components.
    - Added icons (Lucide React) for better visual cues.
    - Improved slider controls and added 'Training Mode' toggle.
- **General**:
    - Fixed body overflow issues in CSS.
    - Miscellaneous UI polish and responsiveness improvements.

README.md, after:

# Q-Vision 3D

**Q-Vision 3D** is an interactive 3D Reinforcement Learning (RL) environment designed to visualize and teach RL concepts. It features a custom-built 3D world where an intelligent agent learns to navigate a grid, avoid hazards, and reach goals.

![Q-Vision 3D Screenshot](./public/assets/screenshot.png)

## Features

-   **Interactive 3D World**: Built with React Three Fiber, featuring a high-contrast chessboard grid and professional lighting.
-   **Custom Agent**: A unique "Wooden Robot" agent constructed from geometric primitives.  
-   **Q-Learning Visualization**: Watch the agent learn and explore its environment in real-time.
-   **Modern Aesthetic**: A clean, neutral design with a focus on clarity and professionalism.

## Controls

The Control Center dashboard provides real-time control over the Q-Learning algorithm and simulation:

### Action Controls
-   **Pause/Resume**: Pause or resume the simulation
-   **Step**: Execute a single step when paused (for detailed observation)
-   **Reset Agent**: Resets the agent's position and clears its learned Q-table, starting the learning process from scratch

### Hyperparameters
-   **Learning Rate (α)**: How much new information overrides old (0-1). Higher = faster learning but less stable
-   **Discount Factor (γ)**: Importance of future rewards (0-1). Higher = more long-term planning
-   **Exploration (ε)**: Probability of random actions (0-1). Higher = more exploration vs exploitation
-   **Simulation Speed**: Delay between steps in milliseconds (10-500ms). Drag right for faster execution, left for slower observation

### Advanced Features
-   **Training Mode**: Disables rendering delay to maximize learning speed. Useful for rapid convergence to optimal policy
-   **Stats Display**: Real-time episode count, step count, cumulative reward, and win count
-   **Reward History Chart**: Visual graph of reward progression over episodes

### 3D View Controls
-   **Rotate**: Click and drag to rotate the camera
-   **Zoom**: Scroll wheel to zoom in/out
-   **Pan**: Right-click and drag to pan the view

## Why this Project?

I built this project to better understand Reinforcement Learning (RL). It serves as a practical playground for visualizing how agents learn to make decisions in an environment.

This project is excellent for anyone interested in:
-   **Robotics**: Understanding how robots perceive and navigate the world.
-   **Self-Driving Cars**: Learning the foundational concepts behind autonomous vehicle decision-making.
-   **Game AI**: Seeing how computer players (like in Chess or Go) learn strategies and optimize their gameplay.

---

> "Have you been productive today?"
